README.md, before:

# Simple Calculator

## Description

A simple calculator for basic mathematical operations. This project serves as an exercise for test automation and a demonstration of Java interfaces and implementations.

## Installation

1. **Requirements**
    - Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or higher
    - Git (to manage the project repository)
2. **Set Up the Project**
   - Ensure Git is installed on your system.
   - Open a terminal and navigate to your desired directory.
   - Initialize a new Git repository:

    ```sh
     git init Abgabe1-Alena-Vodopianova
     ```

    - Add project files to Git:

    ```sh
     git add .
     ```

    - Commit the initial version:

     ```sh
     git commit -m "Initial commit"
     ```

## Usage

The program can also be started using these commands:

`javac -d bin src/at/fhj/iit/*.java`

`java -cp bin at.fhj.iit.CalculatorImpl`

## Features

The `CalculatorImpl` class has the `ICalculator` interface and provides the following methods:

- **Addition**: add(double number1, double number2)
- **Subtraction**: minus(double number1, double number2)
- **Multiplication**: multiply(double number1, double number2)
- **Division**: divide(double number1, double number2) (with error handling for invalid values)

The `ICalculator` interface defines these methods as abstract, ensuring that `CalculatorImpl` provides concrete implementations.

### Example usage

```java
ICalculator calculator = new CalculatorImpl();
double result = calculator.add(5, 3);
System.out.println("Result: " + result);
```

## File Structure

```bash
Abgabe1-Alena-Vodopianova
├── Calculator-Example/
│   ├── pom.xml
│   └── src/ 
│       └── main
│           ├── java/at/fhj/iit/CalculatorImpl.java
│           └── java/at/fhj/iit/ICalculator.java
├── README-Vodopianova-Alena.md
├── exercise1.md
└── resources/
    └── images
         └── ex1_1.jpg

```

## Exercises

- [Exercise 1](exercise1.md)
  
  >*Description*: Create a basic README file and practice
  > Markdown syntax (headings, links, images).
- [Exercise 2](exercise2.md)

  >*Description*: Create core Git commands (init, add,
  > commit, push) and GitHub workflows.

- [Exercise 3](exercise3.md)
- [Exercise 4](exercise4.md)
  >Testfälle für die Methoden
- Exercise 5 (to be added)
- Exercise 6 (to be added)

## Author
>
>*Alena Vodopianova*

- **GitHub Profile:** [Alena Vodopianova](https://github.com/Alena-Vodopianova)
- **University:** [FH Joanneum](https://www.fh-joanneum.at/)

Commit message:

Ex5: Added initial logging in Main.java and log4j2.xml.template

README.md, after:

# Simple Calculator

## Description

A simple calculator for basic mathematical operations. This project serves as an exercise for test automation and a demonstration of Java interfaces and implementations.

## Installation

1. **Requirements**
    - Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or higher
    - Git (to manage the project repository)
2. **Set Up the Project**
   - Ensure Git is installed on your system.
   - Open a terminal and navigate to your desired directory.
   - Initialize a new Git repository:

    ```sh
     git init Abgabe1-Alena-Vodopianova
     ```

    - Add project files to Git:

    ```sh
     git add .
     ```

    - Commit the initial version:

     ```sh
     git commit -m "Initial commit"
     ```

## Usage

The program can also be started using these commands:

`javac -d bin src/at/fhj/iit/*.java`

`java -cp bin at.fhj.iit.CalculatorImpl`

## Features

The `CalculatorImpl` class has the `ICalculator` interface and provides the following methods:

- **Addition**: add(double number1, double number2)
- **Subtraction**: minus(double number1, double number2)
- **Multiplication**: multiply(double number1, double number2)
- **Division**: divide(double number1, double number2) (with error handling for invalid values)

The `ICalculator` interface defines these methods as abstract, ensuring that `CalculatorImpl` provides concrete implementations.

### Example usage

```java
ICalculator calculator = new CalculatorImpl();
double result = calculator.add(5, 3);
System.out.println("Result: " + result);
```

## File Structure

```bash
Abgabe1-Alena-Vodopianova
├── Calculator-Example/
│   ├── pom.xml
│   └── src/ 
│       └── main
│           ├── java/at/fhj/iit/CalculatorImpl.java
│           └── java/at/fhj/iit/ICalculator.java
├── README-Vodopianova-Alena.md
├── exercise1.md
└── resources/
    └── images
         └── ex1_1.jpg

```

### Log4j Configuration
To configure logging with Log4j, follow these steps:
1. Copy `src/main/resources/log4j2.xml.template` to `src/main/resources/log4j2.xml`.
2. Adjust the `log4j2.xml` file if needed (e.g., change the file path for logs).
3. The default configuration logs to both the console and a file (`logs/myapp.log`) with a `DEBUG` level.

## Running the Project
- To run tests: `mvn test`
- To run the main application: `mvn exec:java`

## Exercises

- [Exercise 1](exercise1.md)
  
  >*Description*: Create a basic README file and practice
  > Markdown syntax (headings, links, images).
- [Exercise 2](exercise2.md)

  >*Description*: Create core Git commands (init, add,
  > commit, push) and GitHub workflows.

- [Exercise 3](exercise3.md)
- [Exercise 4](exercise4.md)
  >Testfälle für die Methoden
- Exercise 5 (to be added)
- Exercise 6 (to be added)

## Author
>
>*Alena Vodopianova*

- **GitHub Profile:** [Alena Vodopianova](https://github.com/Alena-Vodopianova)
- **University:** [FH Joanneum](https://www.fh-joanneum.at/)
